Improve alternative sc 4 to 5 guide (#7181)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicecontrol/upgrades/4to5/alternative.md

---
title: Alternative ServiceControl v4 to newer migration  
reviewed: 2025-05-21  

> summary: Advanced alternative ServiceControl v4 migration for environments that cannot retry all messages immediately.  

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Advanced alternative ServiceControl v4 migration for environments that cannot retry all messages immediately
```

Steps:

1. [Stop and disable the v4 error instance](#error-instances-stop-and-disable-v4-error-instance)  
2. [Prevent error queue ingestion](#error-instances-configure-to-stop-ingestion-of-error-queue)  
3. [Change the instance’s queue name](#error-instances-change-servicecontrol-instance-queue)  
4. [Run setup](#error-instances-run-setup)  
5. [Enable and start the v4 error instance](#error-instances-enable-and-start-v4-error-instance)  
6. [Verify the instance](#error-instances-verify-instance-is-running-without-issues)  
7. [Add a new error instance](#error-instances-add-new-error-instance)  

### Stop and Disable v4 Error Instance

1. Open *Windows Services*.
2. Locate the error instance, right-click → **Properties**.
3. Set `Startup type` to `Disabled` → Apply.
4. Click **Stop**.

### Configure to Stop Ingestion of Error Queue

1. Locate the instance folder (via ServiceControl Management Utility → *Installation location* → 📁 **Browse...**).
2. Open `servicecontrol.exe.config` in an elevated text editor.
3. Add:
   ```xml
   <add key="ServiceControl/IngestErrorMessages" value="False" />
   ```
4. Save the file.

### Change ServiceControl Instance Queue

> > [!NOTE]  
> > This step is only needed if **heartbeats** are used.

Author: @tmasternak Renaming, this should be framed differently. How about:

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]  
> The swapping the names of the instances is only needed if **heartbeats** are used to avoid requiring to update the configuration of all endpoints.
```
